welcome back everyone thanks for fitting
the chp into your schedule
some more light-hearted fear for
everyone this topic of the unix of china
has been on the list going back to 2010
and though
not requested by many of you as much as
the history of taiwan or jinyoung
or a few others every now and then
someone is asking
when the eunuchs will be featured in
this series
it's going to be a short one i thought
let's use the topic of the imperial
eunuchs to take a leisurely
romp through chinese history from the
shang dynasty
all the way up to 1924 when the last of
the eunuchs were
kicked out for good from the forbidden
city in beijing
besides the big three eras when eunuchs
made a generous contribution to the
demise of the dynasty
namely in the han tang and ming i'll
trace their rise and fall
throughout chinese history and we'll
also take a peek at the lives of the
10 or 15 of the most notorious of
china's eunuchs who ruined the
reputation of all the
hundreds of thousands of others who
served the emperor and empresses
throughout the dynasties you know is the
greek for bed
and ocos means to have or hold or to
guard
to guard the bed chambers only
a castrated or emasculated man could be
trusted to guard the king's harem
without that ability to procreate the
monarch could sleep well
each night knowing his harem was
protected and the royal bloodline would
not get
fouled by anyone in all things
considered
it would be difficult if not impossible
for a eunuch to
aspire to form his own dynasty
eunuchs worked for the king they served
the state through their service to the
king
or emperor or sultan the ruler who lived
in the imperial
palace the eunuch only answered to him
he did not take orders from anyone else
and though their
original intention was to guard the
emperor's women
eunuchs would also serve as military
leaders envoys and
governors and in other roles that didn't
involve the goings-on in the royal
palace
only the king or emperor could keep
eunuchs on their payroll
them and them alone it was a sign of
their power and they used their eunuchs
to project this power
aristocrats they had slaves or servants
but not eunuchs by sacrificing their
sexual organs
eunuchs gave up their ability to
impregnate a woman
and could not carry on the family line
their branch of the
patrilineal line was terminated
the act of emasculation also brought
some degree of shame on his family as
well they would call these eunuchs and
their sacrifice
chujia it means he who leaves the family
he's cast out and can never return home
this term was also applied to monks as
well
when you chose the castration route
along with your severed sexual organs
you severed ties with your family
and walked away from your most basic
filial responsibilities no small matter
in chinese culture
and with all these bonds severed the
eunuch would
serve his ruler selflessly with no
familial strings attached he belonged to
the monarch
and served him and his family without
any of the complications or demands that
family might bring the ruler became his
family in a manner of speaking
and the way it worked in the imperial
palace sometimes the eunuchs could be
counted on and considered more
trustworthy than
his own blood relatives
their daily political survival and their
fate within the palace system
rested solely in the hands of the
emperor they were dependent on him
for whatever power or authority they
exercised
they were only supposed to be servants
of the household who
because of their inability to have
sexual intercourse with a woman were
trusted throughout the palace
including the inner palace where men
other than the emperor
were persona non grata
they had an often ferocious duel to the
death with their greatest nemesis
the scholarly confucian officials from
the outer palace who ran the bureaucracy
of the state
the by and large illiterate eunuchs and
the scholarly elite of the palace
their epic competition was a theme that
never went out of style in literature
the official histories
and all kinds of tv dramas as well and
as a check
to balance the power of these officials
the emperor used his eunuchs well to get
what he wanted
the earliest mention of unix goes back
to ancient sumer
21st century bce assyria and china were
some of the
earliest empires to institutionalize
eunuchs in their society
the babylonians the hittites they too
so is ptolemaic egypt as well as in the
arab caliphates
and of course famously in the ottoman
empire
the roman and byzantine empires they
both had a
vigorous eunuch culture castration as a
form of punishment
and eunuchs were both mentioned in the
code of hammurabi 1754 bce
in some assyrian art and alabaster
reliefs you can see
what are probably eunuchs beardless
royal attendance
certain physical traits were universally
associated with eunuchs and other
kestrata
smooth skin a lack of facial hair
wide hips falsetto voice gynecomastia
castration was all over the ancient
world as part of
all kinds of rituals and ceremonies
political religious and cultural
castration involved removing the testes
emasculation involved the whole shebang
male sexual organ
and testes chinese eunuchs
had to go the emasculation route
but for the most part eunuchs they were
an eastern thing
they appeared in the roman empire but it
was really in asia where
eunuch history was overwhelmingly
written
castration was one of the original five
punishments or wushing
of ancient china mentioned in the
shujing
the book of documents the other four
were
tattooing the face cutting off the nose
cutting off a foot or both feet
and death by quartering in various
new and innovative ways that people came
up with back then
so with china's earliest eunuchs they
were mostly all prisoners captured in
battle
and convicts this was much different
than
later on during the ming and qing where
young boys
10 years old was optimal and and not so
young boys as well
they were lining up to volunteer to
undergo this procedure
that might garner them a ticket to the
big time in the
nating or the inner chambers of the
royal palace
we're pretty sure eunuchs and chinese
history went back to at least
the shang dynasty 17th century to 1046
bce when lady fujal's
tomb was discovered in 1976 he might
remember her
as the wife of king ding she was also a
military leader and high priestess
during the shang
among the many artifacts pulled out of
this fully intact shang dynasty tomb
from the 13th century bce
were figurines of eunuchs and this is
the
earliest known representation in chinese
history suggesting the existence of
eunuchs in china
all these great shang dynasty artifacts
came from the ruins of yin
the yin shu and anyang province
the most ancient part of hunan province
the oracle bones mentioned castration as
a kind of punishment only
in the western joe that followed the
dramatic fall of the shang
there was plenty of evidence that showed
eunuchs were in existence as palace
guards and servants
and of course for protecting the king's
harem
you might say this was the traditional
role that they were always intended to
play
if there's anything i hope you take away
from this series it's that
of all the eunuchs from the han to the
ching
for the most part they lived a rather
dreary life
performed menial tasks and as
the social outcasts they were eunuchs
ended up being
magnets for tragedy sadness and
disappointment yet history has branded
them as some of the worst
corrupt self-serving conniving evil lot
whose antics led to rivers of blood and
the downfall of more than a couple
dynasties
we remember the big names and we'll look
at all of them the waichong shens and
the lilian yings
those guys were just the tip of the tip
of the iceberg we remember them most of
all because of their
supreme positions at the royal court and
the historic
havoc they wreaked on china but by and
large
your average eunuch was only a working
stiff who just happened to clock in
either at the palace or
wherever they got sent by the emperor or
chief eunuch
yet these 10 or 15 outrageous eunuchs
from
four dynasties only they hijacked the
whole saga of eunuchs in chinese history
and turned these often pathetic
characters into the
vile creatures we've come to know so we
remember the .001 percent
and the rest not so much the first
eunuch
whose notoriety got written into the
official court annals that would
follow the demise of each preceding
dynasty was
jaco we all remember the story about the
time the first emperor of china died
chincher huang this is where ciao gao
really stands out by the way chao kong
he's the one who gave us the famous
cheongyu or chinese idiom
to call a deer a horse to intentionally
deceive someone
thank chalko for that the thing about
childcare is that
he may or may not have been a eunuch the
historical annals said he was but we'll
never know for sure
we remember him well for his starring
role of a lifetime as chancellor
following qin shir huang's death
in shandong province in september 210
bce
after the first emperor oded on mercury
it said chalko took over and by
manipulating the young sons of the
emperor and killing off anyone who
wasn't lined up
on his side he brought china's first
imperial dynasty to an
ignominious conclusion the crown prince
fusu now he was old enough to know
better and was very close to
chinchi huang's loyal general mung tien
and the two of them had their
suspicions about what jiaoko and the
chancellor lisa were up to these two
joko and lisa they tried to scam the
royal court and put their
favorite on the throne who they would
control
as the story went they had fusu killed
and mung tien too for good measure and
they put their guy on the throne
and this was hu hai aka
chin archer the second chin emperor
huhai was in his early 20s and went
along with lisa and chalco's plan
to seize power in shenyang which is
modern day shi'an
you'll see throughout chinese history
there are two kinds of emperors
that gave unix all the tools they needed
to seize power eunuchs thrived on either
young
or weak emperors and the younger and
weaker the better
in qin archer's case though 20 21 years
old
and was still young enough to be
manipulated plus
he was way in over his head taking over
from such a force of nature as his
father
so he just let jalgao do whatever he
wanted and one of the things chalco
wanted
after a few years on an unsteady throne
was for huhi to kill himself after this
luckless successor to the dynasty
founder discovered his loyal eunuch
jalgao
was up to no good and sure enough he
followed his eunuch's orders and indeed
committed suicide at the age of 24.
well next up after hu hai came chin wang
zhu ying
aka zliying the qing dynasty's third
and final emperor for 46 days
he was the one who finally had jiao gao
bumped off after three years of
palace intrigue and once chill was done
in
this mysterious person ying who
historians are still trying to figure
out who he was and his
relation to the first qin emperor
he surrendered to lyopang who then went
on to found the
han dynasty so this conniving murdering
personage from the fall of the chain who
may or may not have been a eunuch
sema chan said he was he got the ball
rolling
as far as tarnishing the image of
eunuchs
yeah good old joko you know the whole
story
of the final years of the qin are so
filled with
mystery and hearsay who's to know what
actually happened as far as the story of
zhao go and this whole
escapade lasting from 210 to 207 bce
i suppose the stories of eunuchs that
many of us are already familiar with
concern all the events that happened at
the end of the eastern han
tang and ming three of china's greatest
dynasties
eunuchs were like the midwives who
assisted in the demolition of the
dynasty
and certain events from those times we
remember times when
eunuchs were able to gain control of the
levers of power
and in each case drove the dynasty into
the ground
let's look at the han dynasty first as i
mentioned
eunuchs have been around since the shang
dynasty
china's oldest dynasty for which there
was a written record of its existence
but it was the han or more specifically
the eastern or later han
that eunuchs perpetrated such an
outrageous caper that it brought down
the dynasty
which was already cruising for a
bruising for a long time anyway
and from this ignominious foundation
the repute of china's eunuchs
particularly how they were portrayed
in the official histories went nowhere
but down
that was another thing the ones who
wrote all the official histories
there's 24 of them the arches shirt
these were all written by confucian
scholars and as i said
there was no love lost between the
eunuchs and the confucianists
these scholars were never going to
portray them in a complementary light
if you had to peg the time when eunuchs
transformed from
guardians of the harem the king or the
emperor and his entire inner court
into participants in the political
process with decision-making authority
and
access to the palace treasury that would
probably have to be when
han juan di was ruling emperor juan
of han 146 to 168
ce he's the guy who let them in the back
door
i already mentioned the eunuchs loved
loved loved
young emperors the younger the better
children if necessary
and an infant who was perfect and if you
couldn't get that
at least get a dimwitted one the first
great eunuch disturbance that warranted
its own mini-series
happened around the midpoint of the
second century ce
now the eastern han fell in 220. so you
know from this point forward
it's not going to be a smooth ride for
the leo family
these descendants from lyupang who had
once bested xiangyu in 202 bce
yeah the han dynasty had had quite a
glorious run up till now
well there there was the whole wangmang
thing but that happened in the tongue as
well right
the eunuchs have played no small role in
wangmong's power grab
so we know certainly by then they were
doing more than
just guarding the harem i don't want to
get sidetracked and start rambling on
and on about
one of the great stories from ancient
chinese imperial history so let's just
say
there was a guy named liang chi who was
the
crafty violent and power-hungry brother
to the empress dowager
and she was okay but he was quite a
scoundrel and plunged the government
and the han dynasty into a political
crisis
liangchi ruled with a heavy hand during
the reigns of emperors schwann
chong and jir prior to emperor schwon
was his father emperor ahn and from on
to jer
106 to 146 ce you had
one long carnival of weak and
incompetent emperors
that's all it takes by schwendie
eunuchs were already starting to
consolidate some of their newfound gains
like the one in 135 that allowed them to
adopt children who they could
one day place in positions of power and
act as their proxies
emperor he's the one who invited the
liang family into the ruling equation
and he'll live to regret that
the liangs were the family of emperor
schwen's empress
here for the first time during han
emperor schwon
eunuchs began to take on that caricature
that would
follow them to their end the instability
and distress at the han
court was presided over by liang ji
until the death of the
young emperor jer at the ripe old age of
eight
after the usual painful shakeout period
a new emperor was chosen
and this was han juan di emperor juan
emperor juan was supposed to be another
pliant ruler who rubber-stamped anything
liangshi
asked of him but in 159 13 years into
his 22-year reign
he wised up and conspired with the ones
he could trust most his eunuchs
to launch a coup d'etat so those eunuchs
who were closest to him there were five
they not only moved fast against liang
ji and forced him to commit suicide
they went after his whole family too and
wiped them out
and all of his political allies and for
their
invaluable help in overthrowing liang ji
and his family clique
the eunuchs were essentially given carte
blanche by emperor juan and for the
balance of his reign
that ended in the year 168 he covered
for the eunuchs for all their excesses
for the wealth they were amassing and
for taking corruption to
new heights never seen before and when
someone tapped the emperor on the
shoulder and suggested he step
in and curb these eunuch excesses he
sided with his eunuchs and whoever it
was that opened their mouth
they lived to regret that the officials
at court
fought back there was a battle royale
for control of the government that
saw a back and forth confrontation that
led nowhere except down
a direction that had been trending since
the beginning of the second century
finally 168 emperor juan died and the
next one up
was emperor ling the eunuchs having made
themselves comfortable during the reign
of schwein
and now fully institutionalized in
juan's time
weren't going anywhere and when the
biggest challenge to their supremacy
came
following the demise of emperor juan in
the eunuch faction led by tao jia and
wong fu
got wind of this organized resistance
against them and made fast work of their
rivals and the reputation of eunuchs for
a ruthlessness that knew no bounds
gained some momentum we'll see in the
history of eunuchs and china
sometimes things got so bad and so out
of control with
the eunuch hold on power that these
these monikers would come into being to
describe the group of
the most powerful eunuchs and during
emperor ling's time
there were the ten attendants the shir
chang shir
these were the ten or actually twelve of
the eunuchs closest
to emperor ling the most famous of which
was
chang-rang it had been emperor juan
who let the units in the back door to
help him sweep away the corrupt and
reckless liang ji and his family
but now one emperor later
the eunuchs had infested not only the
palace but
were spread out in the provinces as well
with relatives
adoptive sons and allies of these ten
attendants
holding various positions that allowed
them to
soak the population for all they were
worth and
live a life of wealth and comfort
without any fear of penalty or
retribution
finally the corruption and oppression of
the eunuchs under emperor ling got so
bad
it led to the yellow turbine rebellion
184-205 and once you hear about the
yellow turbine rebellion
you know the three kingdoms period is
not too far behind
when an upright official named chang
joon submitted a sincere memorial to
emperor ling and
pointed to the destructiveness of the
eunuchs and their corruption
the emperor totally under the thumb of
the ten attendants
showed them the memorial that zhang jun
had submitted and in a scene that will
be
repeated time and again the eunuchs who
controlled the inner palace
promptly arranged for zhang jun to be
silenced
tortured and duly executed as i said
all it takes is a pliant fool of an
emperor
hanling d was their fool and as we make
our way to the qing
you'll see time and again eunuchs were
able to rise to the top positions of
power
thanks to their manipulation of some
weak
muddle-headed or child emperor emperor
ling was their dupe
and by the time he died the eunuchs led
by these ten attendants
had a hammer lock on the government and
the palace
and they plundered the land and were
ruthless with
any organized opposition and their
little reign
of terror lasted all the way up to the
end of han link d
emperor ling who died in may 189
no matter eunuchs confucian officials
buddhists or the taoists
whenever the emperor you know who may
have been your champion
passed away or was killed well you never
knew what was going to follow
so when emperor ling died the eunuchs
tried to get their prince on the throne
but that didn't work out as planned the
new emperor shall
an infant as most all emperors with the
name
xiao are well he had strong backers his
mother
the empress dowager second emperor's
consort to the deceased emperor ling and
she
and she had a brother who served as the
head of the military and this was
her jin both of them were the regents
for her son emperor shao and these two
empress dowager and they started
plotting
how to defang the eunuch faction led by
these 10 attendants
and just like lord virus and game of
thrones who always found out everyone's
secrets
of course these 10 attendants got wind
of this and
in a scene that would be repeated over
and over
rather than be stopped in their tracks
they'll get a little slap on the wrist
and told to behave
but all the while they had their knives
out and plotted their revenge
which for the eunuchs was just an act of
self-preservation
september 189 they had hajin
assassinated he was decapitated and his
severed head thrown over the palace
walls where his followers
were camped and as the famous story goes
his closest officers including uran shaw
and yurin shu
they went in and carried out a mass
slaughter of
all eunuchs and whoever else got caught
up in their net by mistake
and into all this violent turmoil and
power vacuum step the warlord don't draw
and whenever you hear don't draw his
name you know talteau and the whole end
of the eastern han dynasty is imminent
and if there was ever a time to slip in
the old proverbial bookmark i'd say this
is it
from this incident that went down at the
tail end of the han
it spelled the end of the dynasty and
the beginning
of the poor repute that eunuchs would
find themselves in for the remainder of
chinese imperial history
what happened in the han with the ten
attendants in particular
showed everyone what these eunuchs were
capable of once they
gained power if the court officials were
wary of them before
once they were smashed in 189
they vowed never to let these eunuchs
rise this high again
but it sure did happen again and we'll
look at more zany
eunuch antics next time when we get into
the tongue dynasty
consider uh coming back for that
i invite everyone to step right up and
subscribe to my patreon page go to
patreon.com
china history podcast three bucks a
month
that's it of course you're welcome to
pledge more how about
one less caramel macchiato a month and
earmarking those few bucks to this
worthy cause there's also a paypal
donation center at paypal.me
slash china history podcast if you
prefer the
one time get it out of the way option
i'm thankful either way and believe me i
will thank you personally for your
largesse okay enough of this chit chat
this is laszlo montgomery signing off
from los angeles in the state of
confusion
riding out this pandemic just like the
resty is
why not consider coming back in a couple
weeks time for another exciting episode
of the china history podcast
you